# 1.3 Research the Problem

## Asteroids

### Overview

Asteroids is the beginning of the 2D space game. The aim of the game is to destroy the asteroids and the enemy UFOs whilst not colliding with either of the two, and whilst also avoiding the enemy's fire. As time progresses the number of asteroids increases too, making the game progressively harder.  This game was one of the biggest hits in the 70s and 80s, whilst also being one of the highest sold games at the time.

### Controls

Asteriods was originally played on old arcade cabinets, and eventually ported for home systems such as the Atari, which was a popular console in the 80s. The arcade cabinets and the atari systems both used joysticks to be able to move the spaceship and this means that the controls were basic XY movement, and rotation. These controls are super intuitive and they are also easy to pick up and learn.&#x20;

### Story and World

The world of asteroids is generated by spawning asteroids off screen and them floating into the view of the player. The player is able to go off the edge of the screen and come back on at the opposite side of the screen. The asteroids and the UFOs also do this but they aren't able to shoot off the side of the screen, unlike the player can.&#x20;

There isn't really a story to the game, however there is the premise of surviving against the waves of UFOs and be able to live for as long as you can. This gives the feeling of survival and that the player needs to live as long as they can against the opposition. Many games today use this idea and is still one of the most popular genre's.&#x20;

### Features

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Features I will include" %}
| Feature             | Justification                                                                                                                    |
| ------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Controls            | The controls for asteroids are super intuitive and easy to pick up and use, which makes the game easier for newcommers to play.  |
| Off screen movement | The off screen movemnet makes the game feel more open and allows greater breadth of movement for the player.                     |
| Enemies             | Some simple enemies that you are able to kill will help to make the game more involving and an extra challenge.                  |
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Features I won't include" %}
| Feature                  | Justification                                                                           |
| ------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Extremely basic graphics | Using more fancy graphics is more inviting to the playerand is more enticing for them.  |
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}
