# 1.4a Features of Proposed Solution

## Mechanics

### Movement

Movement needs to be fluid and intuitive to use, as this will make the game more likely to be easier to use for a new player. Movement will be done using a linear acceleration on screen, with a varying amount of gravity on each planet. The player will automatically begin to slow down once a movement key is released, but it will not be an instant stop. The gravity and movement will be done using a basic physics engine such as Matter.js

### Collisions

Collisions will be handled via the physics engine I use, and will not use a box method to calculate the size of a sprite as this leads to irritation where a sprite may collide in game when visually you weren't touching. This will be essential for the collisoins with planets and space travel in game.&#x20;

### Controls

The controls will be both WASD and arrow keys, as this gives the player more options for how they play. There will also be other controls such as using E to interact and Shift to be able to speed up and Control to slow down, which will be based around using WASD as your main controls, but many people are used to using WASD in gaming anyway, so would make the most sense to use those.&#x20;

## Level Design and Layout

### Fixed Camera View

The camera will be fixed, like in asteroids, and the background will move underneath as you move. This allows for open exploration of the map whilst also being simple to program, and easy to get used for the player. Additionally this adds an element of mystery, as if you haven't been in a certain area before, then you're unsure what is off screen and could be dangerous for the player.&#x20;

### Puzzle

The biggest difficulty with this game will be making everything efficient as possible and making sure that you explore to be able to find and get everything as without you will not be able to progress as quickly. You will also have to figure out how to make different items and how they are manufactured. The puzzles in the game will take some thinking about, but there will be hints and ways to find out how to figure out the puzzles easier so that a player doesn't get stuck in a certain part of the game.&#x20;

## Limitations

### Limitation 1

Description of a limitation, due to scope/time constraints or difficulty of implementation.
